The dwindling supply of
humanitarian aid into Gaza.
Jordan and France
carried out the largest aid drop
airdrop by air
over the besieged territory.
The armed forces say
they made four aerial aid drops on Monday
in collaboration
with the French,
sending relief and food items,
including ready to eat meals
of high nutritional value.
One journalist tells CNN
he saw four planes.
The first
the first airdrop went into the sea
while the remaining three were dropped
in southwestern areas of the territory.
More now from
CNN Jeremy
Diamond reporting in from Tel Aviv
today.
Gaza's humanitarian crisis
looks like this.
Palestinians desperate
for food, paddling
and swimming out to sea
after at least one plane
airdropping aid
appeared to miss its target,
sending pallets of food
crashing into the sea
in central and southern Gaza.
Hundreds crowding the beaches
to try and secure
their piece of the rations
But this is the other side
of desperation.
Groups of men wielding whips and bats,
steering crowds away
from their precious cargo.
Months of hunger and war, triggering
fights for survival
when there is not enough for everyone
This is what they are fighting over.
Ration packs
a lifeline for the lucky few.
In Omaha,
I was lucky and able to get
one of these aids.
But what about all those other people
who were not able to get this aid?
Look, this one didn't
get any in this way. Didn't get any.
But so much more is needed.
I'm asking from the Arab nations.
We are thankful for the aid,
for the parachutes.
But we need more.
And we need it
distributed in a better way.
This will not stop our hunger.
We don't need a capsule
because when we eat this, we will eat it.
And that's it. It's finished.
But nowhere are
people more
desperate for food
aid than in northern Gaza,
where women and children
wait in long lines
for what now passes for food.
A cloudy soup
mixture made with dirty water
and whatever grains can be found.
What am I used to?
There is no food or drinking water.
No flour or anything.
There was no cooking oil.
Not even drinking water.
Oh.
Death is better than this.
Humanitarian aid deliveries
this month dropped by half
compared to January,
according to a United Nations
relief agency
which blamed Israeli
military operations
and the collapse of civil order in Gaza.
In northern Gaza.
Aid groups
suspending aid
delivery amid looting
and attacks on aid trucks,
leaving many
with few options to stay alive.
I think we are aiding animal feed against
our will, but have to aid us
without food or clean water.
Their voices are all they have left.
The savage hit and run
and the suffering of Gaza
is extremely difficult.
Where are the authorities?
Where is the government
is rumored as hungry and a government
made is hungry and people are stealing.
Shame on you, Arabs.
Where are you?
But after nearly five months of war,
is the world listening?
Jeremy Diamond, CNN, Tel Aviv.
Yoni Sciretta is the president
and CEO of Save the Children.
She is with us this hour from New York.
Thank you for taking the time
to speak with us. Appreciate it.
Thank you, John.
Okay, so here's what life is like
right now in Gaza.
We'll hear first from a mother
in Gaza City.
Her name is Umm Amir Jamal.
And then we'll hear from Jihad Al Danja
who is in northern Gaza.
Hey there,
If
there is no food to feed my children,
nor there is any bread.
We came to the point
where we are eating cheese.
We are eating the food of this donkey.
All of northern Gaza is starving.
There is no shelter, no drink, no food.
There is nothing
seems to be less than nothing.
According to the UN, $8 in February
a half of what
they were last month,
which was a fraction of what is needed.
So Palestinians,
especially in Gaza, are resilient people.
Kids are used to hardship,
but nothing like this.
And the fear is that now
could get a lot worse
as that Israeli
offensive on Rafah goes ahead.
Describe what worse looks like
Yeah, thanks.
And it's almost inconceivable.
Last month,
I didn't think
worse was actually possible,
but clearly it is.
You remember, there's now 1.4 million
people in Rafah,
which is what is a smallish city
housing 3000 people this fall.
Now there's three times as many.
There are essentially tents
and people
everywhere on every single street road.
There are people sheltering
under the tarp, in a tent, perhaps,
or in a makeshift whatever shelter.
So and there is a sense
that this is the last line in Rafah.
There is nowhere to go.
People can't leave.
People can't go back to the north.
There are still fighting there.
They're probably
allowed to cross the border
to Gaza in the middle.
And as we heard, there is no food.
No, not of anything anywhere in the north
anyway, aside
from a lot of unexploded ordnance.
So it is really, you know, quite
there's no
thinking what would happen
if there would be an incursion
now into Rafah,
where people are completely stuck,
essentially locked up with nowhere to go.
And because people are so close together,
it is inconceivable that you would
go in there with a lot of bombs
and shelling and and violence.
Those children will, you know, will
absolutely be there the brunt of that of
of that violence.
It is such a difficult situation
to even think of the words
to how to describe
what is possible there, because it
so much has already happened.
So, yeah, it is it is unthinkable.
This is from an opinion piece
by for CNN, rather,
by UNICEF CEO Katherine Russell.
At least 90% of Gaza's
children under the age of five
are affected by one
or more infectious diseases.
And that 70% have had diarrhea
in the past two weeks.
At least
17,000 children in Gaza
are now unaccompanied
or have become separated
from their families.
In other words, they are now orphans.
Their parents are dead
Now, this is the view from above.
Khan Yunis,
which is a little bit north of Rafah.
And as you can see, as a shot
slowly moves it
as it gets closer and closer and closer.
If you look at that,
you see
people are just going about their daily
lives, their living life.
And this is what life is now like.
For more than a million
and a half Palestinians,
this is reality that
they cramped into these
tent cities everywhere
and they are living in close quarters.
It's perfect for the spread of disease,
to say the least, in many ways.
Are you surprised that the disease
has not spread faster
and worse than it already has?
To some extent, yes.
I mean,
it's also fair to say
that it's hard to really get
a full picture of all the numbers
the diseases.
You know,
there is no opportunity
to test people necessarily for
for a lot of things.
But yes, and also, don't forget,
there is it's
very hard to get clean water in Gaza.
It was hard to get
the water situation
before the conflict wasn't great.
Since October 7th,
it's been completely dismal.
Water plans,
desalination plants are not working.
Water comes in literally drips and drabs
in bottled water.
And the trucks, if they come in,
which is
and there's not enough
of that happening either.
So no clean water,
I think
what is it, one shower
for every thousand people or so.
So people
There's no way to do proper hygiene.
So, yeah,
it is not surprising
that many, many children
present with diarrhea
and infectious infections
diseases will spread.
So in
terms of manmade disaster,
which this is, it could end tomorrow.
Either Hamas could stop
using the population
in Gaza as human shields
or the Israeli government
could decide to stop killing children.
Is there anything comparable
to what's happening in Gaza right now
and the outsize impact
it's having on children?
You're absolutely right.
And both things need to happen.
It can't happen soon enough.
No, I have never seen anything like this
manmade at this scale.
That has such an impact on children
and civilians writ large.
And neither has the many, many,
many Ontarians
who made this their life's work.
Either.
You don't see the precedent.
Yeah, it's tragic.
It's unprecedented,
and it defies words in so many ways.
Thank you for being with us.